# crystal2nix

`crystal2nix` is a sophisticated tool designed to bridge the gap between Crystal programming language projects and the Nix package manager. By generating Nix expressions, crystal2nix streamlines the integration of Crystal projects into the Nix ecosystem, making it easier for developers to manage dependencies, build processes, and maintain consistent development environments.

## Installation

You don't need to install crystal2nix manually. With Nix installed on your system, you can run it directly using the following command:

`nix-shell -p crystal2nix --run crystal2nix`


## Usage

To generate a Nix expression for your Crystal project, simply run:

`crystal2nix`

## Testing

Unit Tests

These are tests that we specifically want to run within the Nix sandbox. The Nix sandbox environment is designed to be isolated, meaning it can only execute offline tests and does not have access to the internet or external networks.

`make check`

All Tests

In our integrated test cases, we focus on validating that the shard.lock file created during the process is a valid and correctly structured file. These tests ensure that the output generated by our code aligns with expected standards and accurately reflects the dependencies required for the project. 

To run all available test cases, including integration tests, use:

`make all-tests`

These commands ensure that your changes are tested thoroughly before being pushed to the repository.


## Development

We welcome all contributions, whether it's bug fixes, new features, or documentation improvements. If you're interested in contributing to crystal2nix, here's how you can get started:

## Future plans 

In the future, we plan to add support for Fossil resources in the Crystal2Nix project

## Contributing

We value contributions from the community. If you have suggestions, bug reports, or improvements, please submit them through GitHub issues or pull requests. Your involvement helps us make crystal2nix better for everyone.

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/your-github-user/crystal2nix/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## License

crystal2nix is licensed under the MIT License. You are free to use, modify, and distribute this software under the terms of this license.

## Contributors


- [Michael Fellinger](https://github.com/manveru)
- [Peter Hoeg](https://github.com/peterhoeg)
- [Vidhvath J](https://github.com/vidhvath28)
